>> Steve Kinney: Hi my name is Steve, and
today we're gonna talk
about testing software.
I've got a few basic tenants around that,
but I kind of wanna start
with of the kind of four major
beliefs that I have about testing,
one that I kind of want to
call it in the very beginning.
Don't worry we'll talk about all four.
One is that writing tests isn't all that
hard despite what you believe, right?
Writing tests is super easy that said,
not all code is easy to test, right?
And so we are gonna talk about
testing software, right?
And one of things I will
kinda mention a few times,
which is you're always testing
software one way or the other, right?
Either you are testing it or
your users are testing it, right?
In production, paging you at night or
whatever, filing bug reports and
making your life hard, or you're testing
it and you're either doing it manually, or
you've got some kind of automated system
to make sure everything works, right?
And so,
our goal is to get to that automated
system that makes stuff work right?
And some of that involves
the actual writing of tests.
Some of that involves how do we
think about our code in a way
that makes it easier to test?
Because sometimes if a piece
of code is hard to test,
it's not necessarily that you
need to get better at testing.
It is maybe that you need to
start pulling apart the code.
So there are two pieces of this and I kind
of want to make sure we think about both
of them equally,
cuz the answer to making easy to test code
is somewhere kind of balancing
those two different pieces as well.
So in this course, we're going to
definitely write tests, of course.
We're going to look at how to make some
code that already exists a little bit
easier to test right?
In some cases, we will write some
tests and then we'll go back,
change the code and see ways that we could
have made our life simpler after the fact,
which is always very validating.
And then sometimes we're gonna look at
how to test code that's hard to test.
Because in a lot of cases, yes, you could
learn how to write the most testable code
in the world, but you're not
always testing your code, right?
There's sometimes where it's just code
you inherited sometimes it's a library.
Sometimes it's the worst developer
that we all despise the most,
which is us three months ago, right?
Not that any of us would ever do that, but
yeah, so as we kind of jump into this,
what are the prerequisites and
what do you need to know?
I am not going to assume that you've ever
written a test before in your life, right?
If you have that's probably helpful.
I'm not going to assume that you are
familiar with any particular framework,
just to make a point,
there are some react components and
there are some Svelte components.
But we are mostly focusing
on the testing piece.
We'll look at how to test those things,
because, generally speaking, it is not.
Uncommon that you might find one of
these frameworks in your day-to-day life
yes, Mark?
>> Mark: At what point in your
journey of learning to program
would you say now is the time
to focus on testing?
>> Steve Kinney: I would say like about
the time that you can kind of get one or
two functions up and running, right?
Like the longer you put it off, the larger
mess you have to go clean up, right?
So I think there is nothing
particularly difficult about testing.
That means if you can JavaScript,
if you can get a script and
you see something in the terminal or
on the page, we're probably at a good
enough place to start talking
about the testing piece, right?
There is always depending on how big
the thing you're working on is, right?
If it's just one little script,
sometimes, you know what?
Staring at those console logs
is probably good enough, right?
But generally speaking, the point where
you know that you need tests, and
by that point,
knowing how to test is probably, you
probably need to learn that beforehand.
The moment you know you need to test is
when you get that piece of existential
dread in your heart.
When you go to change a piece of code and
you do not know what else you are going to
break or what regressions
you're introducing, right?
The sole goal of testing is I'll
make the point on another slide,
and then I'll act like it's
the first time I've ever seen
it is to take that fear when
you change existing code.
And try to minimize it as much as possible
to the point where you feel confident as
much as you can in software.
I'm always surprised by
edge cases sometimes.
But to get to the point where
you can go ahead, change code,
and feel mostly confident that you didn't
mess something else up as you tried to
fix the initial thing.
That is like the bar
that we seek to reach.
And we'll make some jokes
about that in a little bit.
But that is effectively the kind of why
do we test so that we can sleep at night,
right?
Why do we test so that we can open up a PR
and not worry that all of our co-workers
are gonna hate us in a week cuz
we took down production, right?
That is the ultimate goal.
Every other perfectionist tendency in your
body needs to chill out for a second.
That is where we seek to go.
And so to answer Mark's question from
earlier, or I assume the chat's question,
the moment that you feel anxiety that
there are too many things going on for
me to hold them all in my head.
And I'd like something to automatically
kick all of the tires on this application,
make sure I didn't break anything that's
the moment that testing becomes super
useful right?
And we will talk a little bit about
the idea of test-driven development right?
This idea that you write the tests first.
And that kind of goes to the previous
slide we talked about before,
which is that writing tests isn't hard.
Testing hard-to-test code is hard.
The idea when we talk about test
development when we look at it is that,
if you write the test first and
make it pass,
it is very hard to have written
code that is hard to test, right?
And sometimes in that, trying to
figure out a solution, saying, hey,
I would like this very
simple thing to be true.
Cool, move on to the next step.
Like we were talking about
in the introduction,
that little dopamine hit as you go
kinda along of red, now it's green.
Now, I do the next thing and
it's not working, now it's working.
Those things I think help as we even try
to think about and rationalize our code.
So I would say the moment that
you can do some basic JavaScript,
it is probably a good time to learn how
to test because all you're doing is
automatically validating that your
code works the way you think it works.
And the moment that it's taking more time
to constantly check over and over and
over again than it's worth,
it's time to start testing.
Cool and we'll talk about what we're
going to do today, all that other stuff.
But first, I want to take a moment and
just look at the world's simplest
test to kind of make my point.
This is a test this has all
the components of a test in it, right?
Which at the end of the day,
our tests are just JavaScript, right?
To go to that previous point
of if you know JavaScript,
you can probably tackle testing, which is
we've got this function, it's called it.
You can also call it test it takes
a string that describes what it is.
And then there's a function where you just
make some statements about the world,
right?
This one will almost always pass can't
think of a world where it won't.
But that is the core function of a test
now, obviously, this isn't doing much.
And so slowly we begin to build it up,
right?
Which is, we could write a function,
we could hope that the results of
that function are what we expect.
And this is a super simple test, but
those super simple things are sometimes
the things that we miss, right?
And so we can validate that if we're
changing the way that addition works for
some reason, right?
Or, let's say we had
a multiplication function.
At first it's just using the
multiplication symbol, but then we wanna
get really fancy and just recursively
call, add that number of times.
We can verify that all these things work.
And that's all we're really doing as
a test, is we have got a test run that
goes through, takes all these statements,
runs all of them.
And makes sure that everything
the world works the way we
think everything the world should work,
right?
And that is all our tests
are doing at the end of the day.
And so, like I said before, the end goal
of testing is to get rid of that fear.
It's not about a 100
percent test coverage.
It's not about any kind of badge of honor.
It is simply to feel confident
with your own code and
the fact that you can change it and know
that you probably didn't break something.